FICTION

I recommend the following:
Shadow of the Wind  			Carlos Ruiz Zafon
The Clockmaker’s Daughter		Kate Morton

Kept me reading although it's a bit off the top and
not what I would consider 'great literature.':
Gibbin’s Decline and Fall		Sheri S Tepper

Best Laid Plans 				Terry Fallis
On the unsworthvineyards.com book club reading list 
but its description caused me to choose not to read it:
The Graveyard Book			Neil Gaiman

Other books on the same reading list, some of which I began
but found they were not for me:
Heart Berries				Terese Marie Mailhot
The Heart’s Invisible Furies		John Boyn
The Woman in the Window		A.J. Finn
The Signature of All Things 		Elizabeth Gilbert




NON FICTIOn
An American Wolf			Nate Blakeslee
The Tiger                   John Vaillant 

Dan Evans recommends (non fiction:)
Factfulness
21 Lessons for the 21st Century

Kent:

	1. "Spying On The South" - Tony Horwitz (Pulitzer Prize for history, but not for this book).  In the 1850s, immediately before the Civil War, Frederick Law Olmsted (who later became America's most famous, if not greatest, landscape architect - designed Central Park among many other things) was adrift, a restless farmer and dreamer in search of a mission. Olmsted, an strong abolitionist, found it during an journey, as an undercover correspondent in the South, for the up-and-coming New York Times, for which he wrote a series of articles on the conditions of slaves, the culture of white Southerners, the economy and general state of the Southern States. For the Olmsted, a Connecticut Yankee, the South was alien, often hostile territory. Olmsted traveled for 14 months, by horseback, steamboat, and stagecoach, seeking dialogue and common ground. His vivid dispatches about the lives and beliefs of Southerners were revelatory for readers of his day.
	In 2016 Horwitz retraced Olmsted's trip through the South and rediscovers Olmsted's perceptions/truths amidst the discord and polarization of our own time. Is America still one country? In search of answers, and his own adventures, Spying On The South is Horowitz's account of following Olmsted's tracks and often his mode of transport (including muleback): through Appalachia, down the Mississippi River, into bayou Louisiana, and across Texas to the contested Mexican borderland. Venturing far off beaten paths, Horwitz uncovers bracing vestiges and strange new mutations of the Cotton Kingdom.
	A good read.  Worth your time. Will give you more perspective on the twisted American psyche.  Not as good as the books by Horwitz's wife Geraldine Brooks.  Which brings me to several books, two good, one "great":
	a. "Year of Wonders" an international bestseller. Set in 1666, the story depicts a young woman's battle to save fellow villagers as well as her own soul when the bubonic plague suddenly strikes her small Derbyshire village of Eyam. Good to Good+.
	b. "March" selected in December 2005 by the Washington Post as one of the five best fiction works published that year, and in April 2006, it won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.  The March family is the family name of the mother and daughters in Louisa May Alcott's Little Women (set in the Civil War - the father is wholly absent from the novel).  In "March" Brooks tells the story of the father, a surgeon for the U.S. Army during the Civil War.  Good+ to Great-.
	c. "People of the Book".  Won a number of prizes. I think this is the best of the 3 listed here by Brooks.  A multi-century, multi-cultural fictional tale about the journey of a real book/work of art.  One of my all-time favorite books.  Great.

	2. "The Splendid And The Vile"  Nonfiction intimate account of the first year of Churchill's prime ministership. It is a story of political brinkmanship, intelligence and grit in the face of overwhelming crisis, and an intimate domestic drama. Drawing on diaries, original archival documents, and once-secret intelligence reports—some released only recently— this book is a lens on London’s darkest year through the day-to-day experience of Churchill, his family and the advisers in Churchill’s “Secret Circle,” to whom he turns in the hardest moments, with flashes to the experiences of Hitler, Goebbels, Goering and Hesse on some of those same days.  A nonacademic's history book, a good read that will take you out of today’s political dysfunction and back to a time of true leadership, when, in the face of unrelenting horror, Churchill’s eloquence, courage, and perseverance bound a country, and a family, together.  Not what we have today in either Britan or the United States.

